README.md, before:

Apache SkyWalking
==========

<img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/assets/logo.svg" alt="Sky Walking logo" height="90px" align="right" />

**SkyWalking**: an APM(application performance monitor) system, especially designed for 
microservices, cloud native and container-based (Docker, Kubernetes, Mesos) architectures.

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/apache/incubator-skywalking.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=Stars&logo=github)](https://github.com/apache/incubator-skywalking)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/asfskywalking.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=Follow&logo=twitter)](https://twitter.com/AsfSkyWalking)


[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/org.apache.skywalking/apache-skywalking-apm-incubating.svg)](http://skywalking.apache.org/downloads/)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-skywalking.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-skywalking)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/sky-walking/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/openskywalking/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/openskywalking/Lobby)
[![OpenTracing-1.x Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenTracing--1.x-enabled-blue.svg)](http://opentracing.io)

# Abstract
**SkyWalking** is an open source APM system, including monitoring, tracing, diagnosing capabilities for distributed system
in Cloud Native architecture. 
The core features are following.

- Service, service instance, endpoint metrics analysis
- Root cause analysis
- Service topology map analysis
- Service, service instance and endpoint dependency analysis
- Slow services and endpoints detected
- Performance optimization
- Distributed tracing and context propagation
- Database access metric. Detect slow database access statements(including SQL statements).
- Alarm


<img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/assets/frame.jpeg"/>

SkyWalking supports to collect telemetry (traces and metrics) data from multiple sources
and multiple formats, 
including 
1. Java, .NET Core, NodeJS and PHP auto-instrument agents in SkyWalking format
1. Istio telemetry format
1. Zipkin v1/v2 formats


# Document
- [6.x Documents](docs/README.md). 


# Downloads
Please head to the [releases page](http://skywalking.apache.org/downloads/) to download a release of Apache SkyWalking.


# Code of conduct
This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. 
Please report unacceptable behavior to dev@skywalking.apache.org .

# Live Demo
- Host in Beijing. [goto](http://106.75.237.45:8080/)
  - Username: admin
  - Password: admin

# Screenshot
<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" align="center"><b>Under javaagent observing</b></td>
    <td width="50%" align="center"><b>Observe on Istio</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/6.0.0-alpha/Topology.png"/>
</td>
    <td><img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/6.0.0-alpha/Istio/Topology.png"/>
</td>
   <tr>
     <td align="center"><a href="docs/Screenshots.md#agent">More screenshots</a></td>
     <td align="center"><a href="docs/Screenshots.md#istio">More screenshots</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Compiling project
Follow this [document](docs/en/guides/How-to-build.md).

# Contact Us
* Submit an [issue](https://github.com/apache/incubator-skywalking/issues)
* Mail list: **dev@skywalking.apache.org**. Mail to `dev-subscribe@skywalking.apache.org`, follow the reply to subscribe the mail list.
* [Gitter](https://gitter.im/openskywalking/Lobby)
* QQ Group: 392443393

# Who Uses SkyWalking?
A wide variety of companies and organizations use SkyWalking for research, production and commercial product.
Here is the **User Wall** of SkyWalking.

<img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/assets/users-20190222.png"/>

Users are encouraged to add themselves to the [PoweredBy](docs/powered-by.md) page.

# Landscapes

<p align="center">
<br/><br/>
<img src="https://landscape.cncf.io/images/left-logo.svg" width="150"/>&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="https://landscape.cncf.io/images/right-logo.svg" width="200"/>
<br/><br/>
SkyWalking enriches the <a href="https://landscape.cncf.io/landscape=observability-and-analysis&license=apache-license-2-0">CNCF CLOUD NATIVE Landscape.

</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://openapm.io"><img src="https://openapm.io/static/media/openapm_logo.svg" width="100"/></a> 
  <br/>Our project enriches the <a href="https://openapm.io">OpenAPM Landscape!</a>
</p>

# Stargazers over time
[![Stargazers over time](https://starcharts.herokuapp.com/apache/incubator-skywalking.svg)](https://starcharts.herokuapp.com/apache/incubator-skywalking)

# License
[Apache 2.0 License.](/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add Envoy related docs
Signed-off-by: Dhi Aurrahman <dio@tetrate.io>

README.md, after:

Apache SkyWalking
==========

<img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/assets/logo.svg" alt="Sky Walking logo" height="90px" align="right" />

**SkyWalking**: an APM(application performance monitor) system, especially designed for
microservices, cloud native and container-based (Docker, Kubernetes, Mesos) architectures.

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/apache/incubator-skywalking.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=Stars&logo=github)](https://github.com/apache/incubator-skywalking)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/asfskywalking.svg?style=for-the-badge&label=Follow&logo=twitter)](https://twitter.com/AsfSkyWalking)


[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/org.apache.skywalking/apache-skywalking-apm-incubating.svg)](http://skywalking.apache.org/downloads/)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-skywalking.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-skywalking)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/sky-walking/Lobby](https://badges.gitter.im/openskywalking/Lobby.svg)](https://gitter.im/openskywalking/Lobby)
[![OpenTracing-1.x Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenTracing--1.x-enabled-blue.svg)](http://opentracing.io)

# Abstract
**SkyWalking** is an open source APM system, including monitoring, tracing, diagnosing capabilities for distributed system
in Cloud Native architecture.
The core features are following.

- Service, service instance, endpoint metrics analysis
- Root cause analysis
- Service topology map analysis
- Service, service instance and endpoint dependency analysis
- Slow services and endpoints detected
- Performance optimization
- Distributed tracing and context propagation
- Database access metric. Detect slow database access statements(including SQL statements).
- Alarm


<img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/assets/frame.jpeg"/>

SkyWalking supports to collect telemetry (traces and metrics) data from multiple sources
and multiple formats,
including
1. Java, .NET Core, NodeJS and PHP auto-instrument agents in SkyWalking format
1. Istio telemetry format
1. Zipkin v1/v2 format
1. Envoy metrics format (the metric entries itself is prometheus client [metric family](https://github.com/prometheus/client_model/blob/fd36f4220a901265f90734c3183c5f0c91daa0b8/metrics.proto#L77))


# Document
- [6.x Documents](docs/README.md).


# Downloads
Please head to the [releases page](http://skywalking.apache.org/downloads/) to download a release of Apache SkyWalking.


# Code of conduct
This project adheres to the Contributor Covenant [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating, you are expected to uphold this code.
Please report unacceptable behavior to dev@skywalking.apache.org .

# Live Demo
- Host in Beijing. [goto](http://106.75.237.45:8080/)
  - Username: admin
  - Password: admin

# Screenshot
<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%" align="center"><b>Under javaagent observing</b></td>
    <td width="50%" align="center"><b>Observe on Istio</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/6.0.0-alpha/Topology.png"/>
</td>
    <td><img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/6.0.0-alpha/Istio/Topology.png"/>
</td>
   <tr>
     <td align="center"><a href="docs/Screenshots.md#agent">More screenshots</a></td>
     <td align="center"><a href="docs/Screenshots.md#istio">More screenshots</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Compiling project
Follow this [document](docs/en/guides/How-to-build.md).

# Contact Us
* Submit an [issue](https://github.com/apache/incubator-skywalking/issues)
* Mail list: **dev@skywalking.apache.org**. Mail to `dev-subscribe@skywalking.apache.org`, follow the reply to subscribe the mail list.
* [Gitter](https://gitter.im/openskywalking/Lobby)
* QQ Group: 392443393

# Who Uses SkyWalking?
A wide variety of companies and organizations use SkyWalking for research, production and commercial product.
Here is the **User Wall** of SkyWalking.

<img src="http://skywalking.apache.org/assets/users-20190222.png"/>

Users are encouraged to add themselves to the [PoweredBy](docs/powered-by.md) page.

# Landscapes

<p align="center">
<br/><br/>
<img src="https://landscape.cncf.io/images/left-logo.svg" width="150"/>&nbsp;&nbsp;<img src="https://landscape.cncf.io/images/right-logo.svg" width="200"/>
<br/><br/>
SkyWalking enriches the <a href="https://landscape.cncf.io/landscape=observability-and-analysis&license=apache-license-2-0">CNCF CLOUD NATIVE Landscape.

</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://openapm.io"><img src="https://openapm.io/static/media/openapm_logo.svg" width="100"/></a>
  <br/>Our project enriches the <a href="https://openapm.io">OpenAPM Landscape!</a>
</p>

# Stargazers over time
[![Stargazers over time](https://starcharts.herokuapp.com/apache/incubator-skywalking.svg)](https://starcharts.herokuapp.com/apache/incubator-skywalking)

# License
[Apache 2.0 License.](/LICENSE)
