docs/en/setup/backend/backend-health-check.md, before:

# Health Check

Health check intends to provide a unique approach to checking the health status of the OAP server. It includes the health status
of modules, GraphQL, and gRPC services readiness.

> 0 means healthy, and more than 0 means unhealthy.
> less than 0 means that the OAP doesn't start up.

## Health Checker Module.

The Health Checker module helps observe the health status of modules. You may activate it as follows:
```yaml
health-checker:
  selector: ${SW_HEALTH_CHECKER:default}
  default:
    checkIntervalSeconds: ${SW_HEALTH_CHECKER_INTERVAL_SECONDS:5}
```
Note: The `telemetry` module should be enabled at the same time. This means that the provider should not be `-` and `none`.

After that, we can check the OAP server health status by querying GraphQL:

```
query{
  checkHealth{
    score
    details
  }
}
```

If the OAP server is healthy, the response should be

```json
{
  "data": {
    "checkHealth": {
      "score": 0,
      "details": ""
    }
  }
}
```

If some modules are unhealthy (e.g. storage H2 is down), then the result may look as follows:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "checkHealth": {
      "score": 1,
      "details": "storage_h2,"
    }
  }
}
```
Refer to [checkHealth query](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-query-protocol/blob/master/common.graphqls)
for more details.

## The readiness of GraphQL and gRPC

Use the query above to check the readiness of GraphQL.

OAP has implemented the [gRPC Health Checking Protocol](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/health-checking.md).
You may use the [grpc-health-probe](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-health-probe) or any other tools to check the
health of OAP gRPC services.

## CLI tool
Please follow the [CLI doc](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-cli#checkhealth) to get the health status score directly through the `checkhealth` command.

Commit message:

Add an http endpoint wrapper for health check (#12485)

docs/en/setup/backend/backend-health-check.md, after:

# Health Check

Health check intends to provide a unique approach to checking the health status of the OAP server. It includes the health status
of modules, GraphQL, and gRPC services readiness.

> 0 means healthy, and more than 0 means unhealthy.
> less than 0 means that the OAP doesn't start up.

## Health Checker Module.

The Health Checker module helps observe the health status of modules. You may activate it as follows:
```yaml
health-checker:
  selector: ${SW_HEALTH_CHECKER:default}
  default:
    checkIntervalSeconds: ${SW_HEALTH_CHECKER_INTERVAL_SECONDS:5}
```
Note: The `telemetry` module should be enabled at the same time. This means that the provider should not be `-` and `none`.

After that, we can check the OAP server health status by querying the http endpoint: `/healthcheck`,
see [the health check http endpoint doc](../../api/health-check.md).

You can also query the healthiness via other methods like GraphQL, see following.
```
query{
  checkHealth{
    score
    details
  }
}
```

If the OAP server is healthy, the response should be

```json
{
  "data": {
    "checkHealth": {
      "score": 0,
      "details": ""
    }
  }
}
```

If some modules are unhealthy (e.g. storage H2 is down), then the result may look as follows:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "checkHealth": {
      "score": 1,
      "details": "storage_h2,"
    }
  }
}
```
Refer to [checkHealth query](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-query-protocol/blob/master/common.graphqls)
for more details.

## The readiness of GraphQL and gRPC

Use the query above to check the readiness of GraphQL.

OAP has implemented the [gRPC Health Checking Protocol](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/health-checking.md).
You may use the [grpc-health-probe](https://github.com/grpc-ecosystem/grpc-health-probe) or any other tools to check the
health of OAP gRPC services.

## CLI tool
Please follow the [CLI doc](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-cli#checkhealth) to get the health status score directly through the `checkhealth` command.
