docs/en/setup/backend/ui-grafana.md, before:

# Use Grafana As The UI
SkyWalking provide [PromQL Service](../../api/promql-service.md) since 9.4.0 and [LogQL Service](../../api/logql-service.md) since 9.6.0. You can choose [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) 
as the SkyWalking UI. About the installation and how to use please refer to the [official document](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.3/).

Notice <1>, Gafana is [AGPL-3.0 license](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/LICENSE), which is very different from Apache 2.0.
Please follow AGPL 3.0 license requirements.

Notice <2>, SkyWalking always uses its native UI as first class. All visualization features are only available on native UI.
Grafana UI is an extension on our support of PromQL APIs. We don't maintain or promise the complete Grafana UI dashboard setup.

## Configure Data Source
### Prometheus Data Source
In the data source config panel, chose the `Prometheus` and set the url to the OAP server address, the default port is `9090`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-datasource.jpg"/>

### SkyWalking Data Source
Before you start, please install the [SkyWalking data source plugin](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-grafana-plugins).
In the data source config panel, chose the `SkyWalking` and set the url to the OAP server `graphql` service address, the default port is `12800`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.7.0/promql/grafana-skywalking-datasource.jpg"/>

### Loki Data Source
In the data source config panel, chose the `Loki` and set the url to the OAP server address, the default port is `3100`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-datasource.jpg"/>

## Configure Metric Dashboards

### Dashboards Settings
The following steps are the example of config a `General Service` dashboard:
1. Create a dashboard named `General Service`. A [layer](../../../../oap-server/server-core/src/main/java/org/apache/skywalking/oap/server/core/analysis/Layer.java) is recommended as a dashboard.
2. Configure variables for the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-variables.jpg"/>
After configure, you can select the service/instance/endpoint on the top of the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-variables2.jpg"/>

### Add Panels
The following contents show how to add several typical metrics panels.
General settings:
1. Chose the metrics and chart. 
2. Set `Query options --> Min interval = 1m`, because the metrics min time bucket in SkyWalking is 1m.
3. Add PromQL expressions, use the variables configured above for the labels then you can select the labels value from top.
   **Note: Some metrics values may be required calculations to match units.**
4. Select the returned labels you want to show on panel.
5. Test query and save the panel.

#### Common Value Metrics
1. For example `service_apdex` and `Time series chart`.
2. Add PromQL expression, the metric scope is `Service`, so add labels `service` and `layer` for match.
3. Set `Connect null values --> Always` and `Show points --> Always` because when the query interval > 1hour or 1day SkyWalking return 
   the hour/day step metrics values.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-panels.jpg"/>
#### Labeled Value Metrics
1. For example `service_percentile` and `Time series chart`.
2. Add PromQL expressions, the metric scope is `Service`, add labels `service` and `layer` for match.
   And it's a labeled value metric, add `labels='0,1,2,3,4'` filter the result label, and add`relabels='P50,P75,P90,P95,P99'` rename the result label.
3. Set `Connect null values --> Always` and `Show points --> Always` because when the query interval > 1hour or 1day SkyWalking return
   the hour/day step metrics values.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-panels2.jpg"/>

#### Sort Metrics
1. For example `service_instance_cpm` and `Bar gauge chart`.
2. Add PromQL expressions, add labels `parent_service` and `layer` for match, add `top_n='10'` and `order='DES'` filter the result.
3. Set the `Calculation --> Latest*`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-panels3.jpg"/>

#### Sampled Records
Same as the Sort Metrics.

## Configure Topology Dashboards

### Dashboards Settings
For now, SkyWalking support `General Service` and `Service Mesh` topology dashboards, the layer is `GENERAL` and `MESH` respectively.
The following configuration can reuse the above `General Service` dashboard and add a new variable `Plugin_SkyWalking` for the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.7.0/promql/grafana-variables-plugin-sw.jpg"/>

### Add Topology Panel
1. Chose the Node Graph chart.
2. Set `Layer` and `Service` by the variables. If you want to show all services in this layer, set `Service` empty.
3. Set `Node Metrics` and `Edge Metrics` which you want to show on the topology.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.7.0/promql/grafana-panels-topology.jpg"/>

## Configure Log Dashboard
### Dashboards Settings
The following steps are the example of config a log dashboard:
1. Create a dashboard named `Log`.
2. Configure variables for the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables1.jpg"/>
3. Please make sure `service_instance` and `endpoint` variable enabled `Include All` option and set `Custom all value` to * or blank (typed by space button on the keyboard):
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables2.jpg"/>
4. `Tags` variable is a little different from others, for more details, please refer [Ad hoc filters](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/variables/add-template-variables/#add-ad-hoc-filters):
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables3.jpg"/>
5. After configure, you can select log query variables on the top of the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables4.jpg"/>

### Add Log Panel
The following steps show how to add a log panel.
1. Choose `Logs` chart.
2. Set the `Line limit` value (The max number of logs to return in a query) and `Order` value (Determines the sort order of logs).
3. Add LogQL expressions, use the variables configured above for the labels and searching keyword.
`service_instance` & `endpoint` variable ref should use raw [variable-format-options](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/variables/variable-syntax/#advanced-variable-format-options)
to prevent it value be escaped.
4. Test query and save the panel.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-logs-panel.jpg"/>

## Preview on demo.skywalking.a.o
SkyWalking community provides a preview site for services of `General` and `Service Mesh` layers from the demo environment.
You could take a glance through [**Preview metrics on Grafana**](https://skywalking.apache.org/#demo) of the demo deployment.

Notice, we don't provide all setups due to our monitoring target expanding fast. This demo is for helping you understand the above documents only.

Commit message:

[doc] add general-relation grafana ui doc.

docs/en/setup/backend/ui-grafana.md, after:

# Use Grafana As The UI
SkyWalking provide [PromQL Service](../../api/promql-service.md) since 9.4.0 and [LogQL Service](../../api/logql-service.md) since 9.6.0. You can choose [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) 
as the SkyWalking UI. About the installation and how to use please refer to the [official document](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.3/).

Notice <1>, Gafana is [AGPL-3.0 license](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/LICENSE), which is very different from Apache 2.0.
Please follow AGPL 3.0 license requirements.

Notice <2>, SkyWalking always uses its native UI as first class. All visualization features are only available on native UI.
Grafana UI is an extension on our support of PromQL APIs. We don't maintain or promise the complete Grafana UI dashboard setup.

## Configure Data Source
### Prometheus Data Source
In the data source config panel, chose the `Prometheus` and set the url to the OAP server address, the default port is `9090`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-datasource.jpg"/>

### SkyWalking Data Source
Before you start, please install the [SkyWalking data source plugin](https://github.com/apache/skywalking-grafana-plugins).
In the data source config panel, chose the `SkyWalking` and set the url to the OAP server `graphql` service address, the default port is `12800`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.7.0/promql/grafana-skywalking-datasource.jpg"/>

### Loki Data Source
In the data source config panel, chose the `Loki` and set the url to the OAP server address, the default port is `3100`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-datasource.jpg"/>

## Configure Metric Dashboards

### Dashboards Settings
The following steps are the example of config a `General Service` dashboard:
1. Create a dashboard named `General Service`. A [layer](../../../../oap-server/server-core/src/main/java/org/apache/skywalking/oap/server/core/analysis/Layer.java) is recommended as a dashboard.
2. Configure variables for the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-variables.jpg"/>
After configure, you can select the service/instance/endpoint on the top of the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-variables2.jpg"/>

### Add Panels
The following contents show how to add several typical metrics panels.
General settings:
1. Chose the metrics and chart. 
2. Set `Query options --> Min interval = 1m`, because the metrics min time bucket in SkyWalking is 1m.
3. Add PromQL expressions, use the variables configured above for the labels then you can select the labels value from top.
   **Note: Some metrics values may be required calculations to match units.**
4. Select the returned labels you want to show on panel.
5. Test query and save the panel.

#### Common Value Metrics
1. For example `service_apdex` and `Time series chart`.
2. Add PromQL expression, the metric scope is `Service`, so add labels `service` and `layer` for match.
3. Set `Connect null values --> Always` and `Show points --> Always` because when the query interval > 1hour or 1day SkyWalking return 
   the hour/day step metrics values.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-panels.jpg"/>
#### Labeled Value Metrics
1. For example `service_percentile` and `Time series chart`.
2. Add PromQL expressions, the metric scope is `Service`, add labels `service` and `layer` for match.
   And it's a labeled value metric, add `labels='0,1,2,3,4'` filter the result label, and add`relabels='P50,P75,P90,P95,P99'` rename the result label.
3. Set `Connect null values --> Always` and `Show points --> Always` because when the query interval > 1hour or 1day SkyWalking return
   the hour/day step metrics values.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-panels2.jpg"/>

#### Sort Metrics
1. For example `service_instance_cpm` and `Bar gauge chart`.
2. Add PromQL expressions, add labels `parent_service` and `layer` for match, add `top_n='10'` and `order='DES'` filter the result.
3. Set the `Calculation --> Latest*`.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/promql/grafana-panels3.jpg"/>

#### Sampled Records
Same as the Sort Metrics.

## Configure Topology Dashboards

### Dashboards Settings
For now, SkyWalking support `General Service` and `Service Mesh` topology dashboards, the layer is `GENERAL` and `MESH` respectively.
The following configuration can reuse the above `General Service` dashboard and add a new variable `Plugin_SkyWalking` for the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.7.0/promql/grafana-variables-plugin-sw.jpg"/>

### Add Topology Panel
1. Chose the Node Graph chart.
2. Set `Layer` and `Service` by the variables. If you want to show all services in this layer, set `Service` empty.
3. Set `Node Metrics` and `Edge Metrics` which you want to show on the topology.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.7.0/promql/grafana-panels-topology.jpg"/>

## Configure Log Dashboard
### Dashboards Settings
The following steps are the example of config a log dashboard:
1. Create a dashboard named `Log`.
2. Configure variables for the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables1.jpg"/>
3. Please make sure `service_instance` and `endpoint` variable enabled `Include All` option and set `Custom all value` to * or blank (typed by space button on the keyboard):
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables2.jpg"/>
4. `Tags` variable is a little different from others, for more details, please refer [Ad hoc filters](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/variables/add-template-variables/#add-ad-hoc-filters):
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables3.jpg"/>
5. After configure, you can select log query variables on the top of the dashboard:
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-loki-variables4.jpg"/>

### Add Log Panel
The following steps show how to add a log panel.
1. Choose `Logs` chart.
2. Set the `Line limit` value (The max number of logs to return in a query) and `Order` value (Determines the sort order of logs).
3. Add LogQL expressions, use the variables configured above for the labels and searching keyword.
`service_instance` & `endpoint` variable ref should use raw [variable-format-options](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/variables/variable-syntax/#advanced-variable-format-options)
to prevent it value be escaped.
4. Test query and save the panel.
<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.6.0/logql/grafana-logs-panel.jpg"/>

## Configure General Relation DashBoard
The following steps are the example of config a `General Relation` dashboard:
1. Create a dashboard named `General Relation`.
2. Configure variables for the dashboard:
   <img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/10.0.1/promql/grafana-relation-variables1.jpg"/>
   After configure, you can select the service/instance/endpoint and the dest service/instance/endpoint on the top of the dashboard:
   <img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/10.0.1/promql/grafana-relation-variables2.jpg"/>

## Preview on demo.skywalking.a.o
SkyWalking community provides a preview site for services of `General` and `Service Mesh` layers from the demo environment.
You could take a glance through [**Preview metrics on Grafana**](https://skywalking.apache.org/#demo) of the demo deployment.

Notice, we don't provide all setups due to our monitoring target expanding fast. This demo is for helping you understand the above documents only.
