docs/en/ui/README.md, before:

# Introduction to UI

The SkyWalking official UI provides the default and powerful visualization capabilities for SkyWalking to observe full-stack applications.

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/ui-doc/9.0.0/home.png"/>

The left side menu lists all available supported stacks with default dashboards.

Follow the `Official Dashboards` menu to explore all default dashboards on their ways to monitor different tech stacks.

## Custom Dashboard

Besides official dashboards, **Dashboards** provide customization capabilities to end-users to add new tabs/pages/widgets, and
flexibility to re-config the dashboard on your own preference.

The dashboard has two key attributes, **Layer** and **Entity Type**. Learn these two concepts first before you begin any
customization. Also, trace, metrics, and log analysis are relative to OAL, MAL, and LAL engines in the SkyWalking kernel. It would help if you
learned them first, too.

Service and All entity type dashboard could be set as root(`set this to root`), which means this dashboard would be used
as the entrance of its Layer. If you have multiple root dashboards, UI will choose one randomly (We don't recommend doing
so).

**Notice, dashboard editable is disabled on release; set system env(**SW_ENABLE_UPDATE_UI_TEMPLATE=true**) to activate
them.** Before you save the edited dashboard, it is just stored in memory. Closing a tab would **LOSE** the change permanently.

A new dashboard should be added through `New Dashboard` in the `Dashboards` menu. 
Meanwhile, there are two ways to edit an existing dashboard.
1. `Dashboard List` in the `Dashboard` menu provides edit/delete/set-as-root features to manage existing dashboards.
2. In every dashboard page, click the right top `V` toggle, and turn to `E`(representing **Edit**) mode.

## Widget

A dashboard consists of various widget. In the `Edit` mode, widgets could be added/moved/removed/edit according to the Layer.(Every widget declares its suitable layer.)

The widget provides the ability to visualize the metrics, generated through [OAL](../concepts-and-designs/mal.md), [MAL](../concepts-and-designs/mal.md), or [LAL](../concepts-and-designs/lal.md) scripts.

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-configuration.png" />

### Metrics

To display one or more metrics in a graph, the following information is required:
1. **Name**: The name of the metric.
2. **Data Type**: The way of reading the metrics data according to various metric types. 
3. **Visualization**: The graph options to visualize the metric. Each data type has its own matched graph options. See the [mapping doc](#common-graphs) for more details.
4. **Unit**: The unit of the metrics data.
5. **Calculation**: The calculation formula for the metric. The available formulas are [here](#calculations).

#### Common Graphs

|Metrics Data Type|Visualization|Demo|
|----|-------------|----|
|read all values in the duration|Line|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-line.png" />|
|get sorted top N values|Top List|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-topn.png" />|
|read all values of labels in the duration|Table|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-tables.png" />|
|read all values in the duration|Area|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-area.png" />|
|read all values in the duration|Service/Instance/Endpoint List|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-entity-table.png" />|
|read sampled records in the duration|Records List|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customized-dashboard-metrics-20221201-sampled-records.png" />|

#### Calculations

|Label|Calculation|
|----|----|
|Percentage|Value / 100|
|Apdex|Value / 10000|
|Average|Sum of values / Count of values|
|Percentage + Avg-preview|Sum of values / Count of values / 100|
|Apdex + Avg-preview|Sum of values / Count of values / 10000|
|Byte to KB|Value / 1024|
|Byte to MB|Value / 1024 / 1024|
|Byte to GB|Value / 1024 / 1024 / 1024|
|Seconds to YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss|dayjs(value * 1000).format("YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss")|
|Milliseconds to YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss|dayjs(value).format("YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss")|
|Precision|Value.toFixed(2)|
|Milliseconds to seconds|Value / 1000|
|Seconds to days|Value / 86400|

### Graph styles

Graph advanced style options.

### Widget options

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-options.png" />

Define the following properties of the widget:
1. **Name**: The name of the widget, which used to [associate with other widget](#association-options) in the dashboard.
2. **Title**: The title name of the widget. 
3. **Tooltip Content**: Additional explanation of the widget. 

### Association Options

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-association.png" />

Widget provides the ability to associate with other widgets to show axis pointer with tips for the same time point, in order to help users to understand
the connectivity among metrics.

## Settings

Settings provide language, server time zone, and auto-fresh options. These settings are stored in the browser's local storage. Unless you clear them manually, those will not change. 

## FAQ

### Login and Authentication

SkyWalking doesn't provide login and authentication as usual for years. If you need, a lot of Gateway solutions have
provides well-established solutions, such as the Nginx ecosystem.

Commit message:

Sync UI and add docs for Widget Static Link feature

docs/en/ui/README.md, after:

# Introduction to UI

The SkyWalking official UI provides the default and powerful visualization capabilities for SkyWalking to observe full-stack applications.

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/ui-doc/9.0.0/home.png"/>

The left side menu lists all available supported stacks with default dashboards.

Follow the `Official Dashboards` menu to explore all default dashboards on their ways to monitor different tech stacks.

## Custom Dashboard

Besides official dashboards, **Dashboards** provide customization capabilities to end-users to add new tabs/pages/widgets, and
flexibility to re-config the dashboard on your own preference.

The dashboard has two key attributes, **Layer** and **Entity Type**. Learn these two concepts first before you begin any
customization. Also, trace, metrics, and log analysis are relative to OAL, MAL, and LAL engines in the SkyWalking kernel. It would help if you
learned them first, too.

Service and All entity type dashboard could be set as root(`set this to root`), which means this dashboard would be used
as the entrance of its Layer. If you have multiple root dashboards, UI will choose one randomly (We don't recommend doing
so).

**Notice, dashboard editable is disabled on release; set system env(**SW_ENABLE_UPDATE_UI_TEMPLATE=true**) to activate
them.** Before you save the edited dashboard, it is just stored in memory. Closing a tab would **LOSE** the change permanently.

A new dashboard should be added through `New Dashboard` in the `Dashboards` menu. 
Meanwhile, there are two ways to edit an existing dashboard.
1. `Dashboard List` in the `Dashboard` menu provides edit/delete/set-as-root features to manage existing dashboards.
2. In every dashboard page, click the right top `V` toggle, and turn to `E`(representing **Edit**) mode.

## Widget

A dashboard consists of various widget. In the `Edit` mode, widgets could be added/moved/removed/edit according to the Layer.(Every widget declares its suitable layer.)

The widget provides the ability to visualize the metrics, generated through [OAL](../concepts-and-designs/mal.md), [MAL](../concepts-and-designs/mal.md), or [LAL](../concepts-and-designs/lal.md) scripts.

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-configuration.png" />

### Metrics

To display one or more metrics in a graph, the following information is required:
1. **Name**: The name of the metric.
2. **Data Type**: The way of reading the metrics data according to various metric types. 
3. **Visualization**: The graph options to visualize the metric. Each data type has its own matched graph options. See the [mapping doc](#common-graphs) for more details.
4. **Unit**: The unit of the metrics data.
5. **Calculation**: The calculation formula for the metric. The available formulas are [here](#calculations).

#### Common Graphs

|Metrics Data Type|Visualization|Demo|
|----|-------------|----|
|read all values in the duration|Line|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-line.png" />|
|get sorted top N values|Top List|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-topn.png" />|
|read all values of labels in the duration|Table|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-tables.png" />|
|read all values in the duration|Area|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-area.png" />|
|read all values in the duration|Service/Instance/Endpoint List|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-entity-table.png" />|
|read sampled records in the duration|Records List|<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customized-dashboard-metrics-20221201-sampled-records.png" />|

#### Calculations

|Label|Calculation|
|----|----|
|Percentage|Value / 100|
|Apdex|Value / 10000|
|Average|Sum of values / Count of values|
|Percentage + Avg-preview|Sum of values / Count of values / 100|
|Apdex + Avg-preview|Sum of values / Count of values / 10000|
|Byte to KB|Value / 1024|
|Byte to MB|Value / 1024 / 1024|
|Byte to GB|Value / 1024 / 1024 / 1024|
|Seconds to YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss|dayjs(value * 1000).format("YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss")|
|Milliseconds to YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss|dayjs(value).format("YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss")|
|Precision|Value.toFixed(2)|
|Milliseconds to seconds|Value / 1000|
|Seconds to days|Value / 86400|

### Graph styles

Graph advanced style options.

### Widget options

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-options.png" />

Define the following properties of the widget:
1. **Name**: The name of the widget, which used to [associate with other widget](#association-options) in the dashboard.
2. **Title**: The title name of the widget. 
3. **Tooltip Content**: Additional explanation of the widget. 

### Association Options

<img src="https://skywalking.apache.org/screenshots/9.2.0/customize-dashboard-metrics-20220817-association.png" />

Widget provides the ability to associate with other widgets to show axis pointer with tips for the same time point, in order to help users to understand
the connectivity among metrics.

### Widget Static Link
On the right top of every widget on the dashboard, there is a `Generate Link` option, which could generate a static 
link to represent this widget.
By using this link, users could share this widget, or integrate it into any 3rd party iFrame to build a 
network operations center(NOC) dashboard on the wall easily.
About this link, there are several customizable options
1. `Lock Query Duration`. Set the query duration manually. It is OFF by default. 
2. `Auto Fresh` option is ON with 6s query period and last 30 mins time range. Query period and range are customizable.

## Settings

Settings provide language, server time zone, and auto-fresh options. These settings are stored in the browser's local storage. Unless you clear them manually, those will not change. 

## FAQ

### Login and Authentication

SkyWalking doesn't provide login and authentication as usual for years. If you need, a lot of Gateway solutions have
provides well-established solutions, such as the Nginx ecosystem.
